# Trend Micro Cloud One Network Security Customer Usage Metrics, Analytics, Dashboards, and Alerts

I returned to Trend Micro as a Research and Software Engineer Intern in the Cloud Architecture team (Core Team - Red Squad). After realizing the power of communicating with customers regularly to better understand how to improve our product offerings and address the customer’s specific needs, I decided to converse with Product Managers, Engineers, and the Customer Success as a Service (CSaaS) team to identify opportunities to improve the customer experience. I found that the PMs and CSaaS team wanted to be able to quickly understand and analyze how corporate customers used the Trend Micro Cloud One Network Security (C1NS) tool. First, I familiarized myself with C1NS by reading existing documentation and deploying C1NS and PayG (their pay-as-you-go billing service) clusters on AWS to learn from hands-on testing. After some more investigation, I noticed that we can be more proactive about reaching out to customers by notifying the CSaaS team whenever abnormal usage patterns are observed by C1NS customers. I worked with my intern partner, Danika Luo, to accomplish this by creating 11 Kibana monitors that send automated alerts to production CSaaS slack channels that help the CSaaS team track and analyze customer usage patterns, locate and diagnose device health issues in real-time, pinpoint customers experiencing problems or any unusual behavior, and identify customers for upsell opportunities. We took a structured approach by following agile software development methodologies to keep track of our project, break down the tasks, identify dependencies, and communicate our progress, and we thoroughly documented the monitors and visualizations for future reference. This approach helped us double the scope and finish on time. Overall, I learned several new technologies such as AWS and Elastic Stack while working on an impactful project that helped Trend Micro better serve its customers.
<br>

Tech: AWS, DynamoDB, Elastic Stack, Java, Python, Painless, Cloud One Network Security, Jira, LaunchDarkly, Linux, Git, Jenkins
